MAGECLOUD-4040: Add selenium image to run MFTF on local machine with … (#6360)
magento/devdocs: src/cloud/docker/docker-mftf.md

---
title: Magento Functional Testing
group: cloud-guide
functional_areas:
  - Cloud
---

Magento CLoud Docker supports Functional Testing with [Magento Functional Testing Framework]({{site.baseurl}}/mftf/docs/introduction.html)

This means that you're able to run Functional Tests locally and target them on your Cloud Docker or remote instance.

{:.bs-callout-info}
To be able to run MFTF use [Magento Cloud Docker][cloud-docker-repo] version 1.0 or higher

1. Prepare environment

>     - Add MFTF dependency via Composer tou your project,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add the MFTF dependency to your project using Composer.
```

    ```bash
    composer require "magento/magento2-functional-testing-framework" --no-update
   ```

>    - Install new Composer Dependency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Install the new dependency using Composer update.
```

   
   ```bash
    composer update
    ```

> 1. Generate `docker-compose.yml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate the `docker-compose.yml` file.
```

    ```bash
    ./vendor/bin/ece-docker build:compose --with-selenium --no-cron
    ```

> 1.  Start Cloud Docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Start Cloud Docker.
```

>     Optionally you can setup Cloud Docker to work in [Developer Mode]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/docker/docker-mode-developer.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Optionally, you can start Cloud Docker in [Developer mode]({{site.baseurl}}/cloud/docker/docker-mode-developer.html)
```

Reviewer: So the reason to use developer mode is to have a writable environment?  If we provide the option, it might be helpful if this option has a brief explanation about why a customer would want to use developer mode instead of production mode. If it's too complex to explain here, then just pointing them to the developer mode section is OK.

    
    ```bash
    ./bin/magento-docker up
    ./bin/magento-docker ece-redeploy
    ```

> 1. Prepare Magento

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prepare the Magento application for MFTF testing.
```

>     - Add environment variables specific to MFTF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add environment variables required to perform application testing with MFTF.
```

    
    {:.bs-callout-info}

>     You may use remote URL in `MAGENTO_BASE_URL` variable below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can specify a remote URL in the `MAGENTO_BASE_URL` variable below if you want to test the Magento application in a remote environment.
```

    
    ```bash
    CONFIG="MAGENTO_BASE_URL=http://magento2.docker/
    MAGENTO_BACKEND_NAME=admin
    MAGENTO_ADMIN_USERNAME=admin
    MAGENTO_ADMIN_PASSWORD=123123q
    MODULE_WHITELIST=Magento_Framework,Magento_ConfigurableProductWishlist,Magento_ConfigurableProductCatalogSearch
    SELENIUM_HOST=selenium"

>    

Reviewer: Just checking:  Is the quote syntax correct here:  open on the CONFIG value; close after SELENIUM_HOST value?

Author: Yes

    docker-compose run deploy bash -c "echo \"$CONFIG\" > /app/dev/tests/acceptance/.env"
   ```
   

>     - Disable Magento settings which conflicts with MFTF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Disable Magento settings that conflict with MFTF functionality.
```

    ```bash
    docker-compose run deploy magento-command config:set admin/security/admin_account_sharing 1
    docker-compose run deploy magento-command config:set admin/security/use_form_key 0
    docker-compose run deploy magento-command config:set web/secure/use_in_adminhtml 0
   ```
   

>    - Enable Varnish cache for application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Enable the Varnish cache for the Magento application.
```

   ```bash
    docker-compose run deploy magento-command config:set system/full_page_cache/caching_application 2 --lock-env
    docker-compose run deploy magento-command setup:config:set --http-cache-hosts=varnish
   ```

> 1. Generate MFTF tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate MFTF tests.
```

   ```bash
    docker-compose run test mftf-command build:project
    docker-compose run test mftf-command generate:tests --debug=none
    ```

> 1. Run generated tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the generated tests.
```
